YouTube's terms of service {.page-header}
==========================

Dear reader, I'm very pleased to introduce here Suzanne's first blog
commit about her work at ToS;DR. Suzanne studies law in Sciences Po
where I also study, and she's doing an internship as part of her
master's program. She has been very helpful for our collaboration with
the BBC (more about that later!) and she has also provided analysis of
several terms already, amongst them YouTube's, which we are proud to
publish now: [\#youtube](http://tosdr.org/#youtube).\
-- Hugo

* * * * *

When I first decided to contribute to the tos;dr project, my idea was to
analyze and to work on the terms of service of youtube, since it had not
been already rated while it is one of the most popular websites among
people. Indeed, it is really common to search for music or videos at
least once a day on Youtube!

It was thus interesting to know more about the rights of the users who
actually create accounts and post videos on such a famous service. As it
was my first analysis of a service, I had no real idea of what I could
exactly find. However, after a glance, I felt quite surprised by certain
clauses.

As a matter of fact, some aspects of these terms that I read seemed
quite negative to me.

For instance, Youtube (as many other services apparently!), can change
the terms of services at any time, without any notice to the user, while
the terms continue to be liable to him.

Besides, the content of the users can be removed at any time, and
without notice, at the sole discretion of Youtube, which is quite
arbitrary and unequal. Likewise, the videos that a user may delete are
in fact not really deleted, since Youtube reserves the right to retain
them. Well, they do say that these deleted videos won't be displayed,
distributed or performed…but still, what's the point of retaining them,
then?

If some other points can also appear as mediocre, (you can check them on
tosdr.org), I think those were the most representative for a service as
Youtube. If I am absolutely not suggesting that we stop using Youtube, I
am nevertheless convinced that it is important that everyone, and
especially the persons who have a Youtube account and upload videos, are
aware of their rights, as presented in the terms of service they have
agreed to.

9 Jun 2013