Why so many services have "No Class Yet" {.page-header}
========================================

We've had some people wondering why so many services still have "no
class". First, what does that mean? Second, why is that so?

When we show you that ["Facebook has No Class
Yet"](../index.html#facebook) we don't mean that the people at Facebook
aren't particularly elegant. One of the core idea that Michiel insisted
on is that it's important to keep the ratings as simple as possible.
Just like when you buy a washing machine in Europe, where you get
instant information thanks to [a one-dimension
rating](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/European_Union_energy_label "The EU energy label").

Although we try to keep things simple, a lot of efforts is necessary in
order to achieve something solid. The way a service gets a rating is
basically like this: each point weighs a score, and the scores are added
(for positive points) or subtracted (for negative points) until we get a
global score which puts the service on the A to E scale. To get more
details, read on [about the classification](../classification.html).

But then, if we already have some points related to Facebook, Google,
etc. Why do we still show the temporary "No Class Yet"?

The reason is that we do not have enough data yet. Not only we think
that we need more reviews on that specific service before we can fully
assess it, but more importantly: remember that the class comes from the
scores assigned to each individual point. But each of these scores are
made from comparisons between different clauses. You can get the details
of these comparisons on the [ratings shown by
topic](../topics.html#topics).

So the problem is: we don't feel that we've had enough time and enough
data to make solid comparisons yet. Until we feel confident enough about
the scores assigned to each point, we'll begin to roll out the classes
more easily. Lately, we've kept on updating the score to reflect more
accurately the discussions.

As always, you can follow the developments on the [working group
mailing-list](https://groups.google.com/d/forum/tosdr), or directly
follow [the code on github](https://github.com/tosdr/tosdr.org).

We hope that thanks to your donations, we'll have more people working on
making these comparisons as good as possible. But all of this takes
time! If you're willing to contribute your energy to this, don't
hesitate to [contact us](../about.html#contact)!

**Update:** One of the best way to remedy this is to [get
involved](../get-involved.html)! We also welcome any feedback on the
page itself.

19 Nov 2012